---
layout: post
title: "Renovate"
category: sysadm
---
{% include JB/setup %}

So I decided to spice up my Gentoo work station a little. I was having
a little too much crud lying around like ldap and mysql support
anyways. To get a more complete control over what was installed, I
started moving away from using a list of use flags in
<code>make.conf</code> by doing a

    emerge -evp --columns world >> tmpfile

with that format it was easy to use an openoffice spreadsheet and
insert from file with fixed width delimiters cut and then go through
the file with emacs and do some search and replace to end up with the
exact format that ``/etc/portage/package.use`` employs.  Then, with
the help of profuse and simple stuff like ``sed -i 's/ ldap/ -ldap/g'
tmpfile`` I soon had the use flag settings I wanted. A nice side
effect was that I also discovered the truetype flag which endowed me
with pwettier apps on my desktop.  While at it, I did a check for
cflags and I noticed that since my gcc was now at a sufficient high
level to be able to interpret the ``-march=core2``, I put that
in. Also found that my ``/proc/cpuinfo`` revealed the ``msse4.1``
would be possible for my system. <a
href="http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Safe_Cflags/Intel">Good source of
info this</a>.  Having done all that which took me quite a bit of time
(there's probably a much more efficient way I reckon =/ ). It was time
for the good old rebuild all-script (I had also a new linux-headers to
upgrade to):

{% highlight bash linenos %}
#!/bin/sh
PKGLIST="linux-headers glibc binutils-config binutils gcc-config gcc glibc binutils gcc system world"
for i in $PKGLIST
do
    emerge -q $i
done
{% endhighlight %}

It's probably just my imagination but everything seems prettier and snappier =). 

{% include share.html %}
